in this video
Let us learn how to perform the dequeue
operation in a circlar queue Let us take
this samples circular queue the dequeue operation will return the
elements in first in first out principle
Now let us perform the dequeue operation
The front  pointer will point to the first inserted
element Here it is pointing to the number 10 so
back up the value 10th and performed the circular increment
on front pointer of that is front equal to front
plus one mod size here the value of front is zero
and value size is three
So it will become zero plus one mod three which
is one mod three that is one
Now the front pointer is move to the next index
It indirectly means that the element 10 is removed from the
queue
So now we can return the backup value 10
That's it
Now let us perform one more  dequeue operation Now the value
front pointer is one and it is pointing to the
element 20
So backup the value 20 and perform circular increment
on the front pointer here the value front is
one so it will become one plus
One mod three which is two mod three that is
two
Now the front pointer is move to the next index
It indirectly means that element twenty is removed from the queue
So finally we can return the backedup the value 20
here
One important thing to notice
We had only one element 20 in the queue and
we dequeued it
Which means the queue is empty
Now
So for the last element case we need to reset
the values of front and rear to minus one
And what will be the condition to check The last
element if the front  And rear Pointers point to the same index
We can say there is only one element present in
the queue and that will be the last element
So if front is equal to rear we need to
reset the values of front and rear to minus one
That's it the logic of dequeue operation is very
simple
First check
If the queue is empty or not if it is
empty we can just written if the value of front
equal to minus one we can say that the queue
is empty
If the queue is not empty first back up the
array of front value in some temporary variable
Next perform a circular increments on front pointer
and lastly returned the backed up value here
We need to consider one more case
Also that is for the last element
We need to reset the front and rear pointer to minus
one
That's it Now let us quickly implement the logic for
isQueue empty function
This function will check whether the queue is empty or
not
If it is empty it will return true
Otherwise it will return false
So let us write a function named isQueue empty with return
type as bool
If front equal to minus one
The queue is empty
So write if front equal to equal to minus one
return true
Otherwise we need to return false so write return false
And that's it this is all about a circular Queue and its operations.